  To summarize our observations, one section of our observation collection was centered around the school's usage of FirstClass. We both knew that much of the school has expressed their dissatisfaction with the email application so we wanted to look at that for a portion of our lab. We noted down that FirstClass was marred with glitches, with indicators being things such as FirstClass duplicating received/sent emails on occasion. Furthermore, another functionality we found to be inconvenient for students was that FirstClass deleted emails after 30 days. From class, we also observed that the computers in the computer lab were inconvenient in that they took too long to load when signing in. Furthermore, with other seniors, we focused on the college process, and the communication between seniors and their college counselors. We noticed that sometimes, seniors complained that communication was not streamlined enough with their counselors. For these observations, one could easily group them under an umbrella class of observations derived from online interactions. We made our observations based around the theme of long-distance digital communication between students only or students and school faculty, so that we could directly address them through application development. The forms of technology we investigated were built to be simple, so it eventually poses the question to us: How do we simplify further something that is already built to be as simple as possible? As for our methods, both Jayden and I approached our process for the lab very simplistically. We roamed around the school looking for things that stood out to us as inconveniences. Anything that stood out to us, we recorded. Over time, we narrowed our observations down to those that could be addressed through software development. After the process of narrowing our observations down, we wanted to brainstorm. After finding our specific problem embedded in our observation, we brainstormed solutions to such problems, solutions that we thought would be more convenient for the students of the whole school.
  
  
  
  
  
