## Fixing Our School's System of Communication, to Facilitate Elevated Levels of Community Engagement

Of the observations I recorded throughout the Fly On the Wall lab, the most prevalent problem for students, teachers, and other faculty alike seemed to be FirstClass and its poor design as well as its glitch-ridden tendencies. Email systems are designed to connect members of a community to one another as well as keep each member of the community active and engaged with each other. FirstClass, as a software primarily used by this school for email, is a platform that allows students and faculty to communicate. For its ability to connect, it serves as a positive for this school’s community. Yet, over the past few years, the platform’s reliability and functionality have frequently been called into question. Because communication is a central fixture of any student’s day-to-day life at this school (or any school for that matter), any hindrance in their ability to communicate becomes an unneeded difficulty in their learning experience. Throughout the lab, I often heard about FirstClass’s issues in the student lounge, where most older students regularly congregate. The complaints would be about emails not being saved, emails being received and sent twice unintentionally, and emails not being sent/received at all. Even during the weekly advisory period, there was an instance where a sophomore student complained about receiving a barrage (spam) of notifications for emails received on FirstClass. The mere idea of having a school-wide communication platform is immeasurably beneficial, and therefore should be kept. Yet, such an important platform needs to be constantly reliable. For example, if the night before a project is due a student’s email fails to send to their teacher, the student cannot tweak their project and might unjustifiably perform worse academically on that assessment. With a solution to this common theme of broken/disjointed communication, the learning experience for each Horace Mann student would become more streamlined and thus less stressful. 

This proposal is centered around the theme of facilitating community engagement. This is because FirstClass, when fully functional, helps connect students and faculty. It helps people at this school communicate with each other about initiatives, such as clubs. Such clubs could be oriented around helping the general school community with mental health, or giving back to the surrounding community through service-learning. When FirstClass is as dysfunctional as it is right now, it prevents students from being engaged in those aforementioned ways, it could ostracize students. If FirstClass were to be rid of its issues and made into a more user-friendly piece of software centered around ONLY communication (and not things such as calendars, reminders, etc., etc.) students would feel more engaged with the Horace Mann community. They would feel that it would be easier to engage with their own community and subsequently maybe even engage in outreach with the surrounding community. It’s communication that brings people to engage, and if our system of communication is broken, we need to make it more functional and easier to use, so that engagement is easy and widespread.
