# Design Manifesto
## By Pavan Kumar


## Introducing our Intentions
One of the more important aspects of our design was the possibility for inclusion of an entire community. In my personal code of ethics, inclusion plays a large role. Allowing as many people as possible to have full access to a certain thing or privilege is part of my perspective of inclusion. In this case, the “entire community” targeted by our group’s design is the students and faculty of Horace Mann School. Our emphasis on including the entire Horace Mann community led us to working on designing something that is more effective than First Class at connecting the entire Horace Mann community. 

## Our Design Process
Our design process consisted of our application constantly evolving through different iterations. We allowed our design process to heavily influence the decisions we made regarding our application. We didn’t want to tunnel-vision onto a goal and lose sight of important concepts such as feasibility. Thus, the design process played an integral role in each and every checkpoint of our application development process, where we made decisions on moving forward. An example for this could be when the group met to discuss the feasibility of building our entire application on XCode from the ground up to full functionality, when we had finalized making changes to our paper prototype with the comments of our testers in mind. Due to the sheer amount of functionalities we added during our design process, we had made the decision to scale back on our coding initiative. However, one drawback I found with the design process was that I felt it slowed down to a crawl at times, and it left me frustrated, being someone who always wants to work at a fast pace.

## Most Valuable Parts of our Design Process
The most valuable part of our design process consisted of our prototype tests involving others in the Horace Mann community. Our testers had varying levels of expertise, so we were able to receive all types of feedback. Using a wide variety of the comments we received, we were able to improve our application into something that addressed all of the issues that were previously brought up. For example, we were able to improve our home page based on one of our testers saying that they would appreciate something more comprehensive on the home screen. 

We found it most helpful when testing with users who had lower levels of expertise. For example, from our experience from testing with someone who wasn’t as experienced with technology, we were able to add more to our help page, and to add more ‘direction’ widgets to our pages. 

## Expectation Vs. Reality
At the very beginning of our design process, there were alot of moments where expectations did not meet reality, because of how we were over ambitious. For instance, at the very beginning of the project, we believed that we could design the entire application and all its functionalities using XCode and other integrations. However, it quickly became that we would only be able to chase that goal in a limited capacity, due to how ambitious we were with adding functionalities to our application. It was a choice between being ambitious with code or being ambitious with the application’s functionalities.

## Facing Challenging Moments as a Group
I believe the moment that was the most challenging out of the entire year-long process for the development of our application was the very beginning. In essence, brainstorming was very difficult. At the very beginning of our process, we were trying to find problems to solve and once we settled on our problem, we were kind of at a loss on how to move forward with an effective yet original solution. However, coming together as a group regularly, helped us step by step build towards an idea that we could all agree with, something I wouldn’t have been able to do completely on my own. 

## Generalizing my Code of Ethics for Application Elsewhere
In generalizing my personal code of ethics to everything we use, I would say that everything we use should be designed in a way that prioritizes equity. I believe that accommodations should be built in, based on the abilities or inabilities of the consumer. We tried to factor that with our application design, by trying to make accommodations based on the expertise level of different types of people in the HM community. In the future, I would want any consumer to look at an application and find that there are functionalities in the application specifically tailored to them, so that they feel welcomed and accommodated regardless of their abilities. Before this class, I wasn’t completely aware of how important the concept of accessibility is in application design, and this class has taught me its importance. 
